---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Demonstrate asynchronous vs. synchronous processing'
    module: 'Module 09: Security and performance'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

In this lab, a premium is generated for all the insurance records in one button
click. Task \#1 is generating the premium records using synchronous processing.
Task \#2 generates the same records using asynchronous processing.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual Studio

-   Import the following lab exercise as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectCode.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectExtension

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement

Task \#1: Synchronous process
-----------------------------

1.  Create a new Finance Operations project within the training solution called
    **MB500TrainingProjectAsync**. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.


2.  **Create** a new **Runnable class MBTAllPremiumGenerate**

3.  **Add** the following new **method** in **MBTAllPremiumGenerate.**

		static date getDueDate(date \_PolicyDate, int \_noOfMnt)
		{
			date premiumDate = \_PolicyDate;
			for(int i = 0; i\<_noOfMnt; i++)
			{
				premiumDate = nextMth(premiumDate);
			}
			return premiumDate;
		}

4.  **Add** the following new **method** in **MBTAllPremiumGenerate.**

		static void generateAllPremium(boolean \_asynch = true)
		{
			MBTAssetInsurance assetInsurance;
			MBTInsurancePremium insurancePremium;
			int cnt= 0;
			while select assetInsurance
			{
				switch(assetInsurance.Period)
				{
					case MBTPeriod::Monthly:
						cnt=12;
						break;
					case MBTPeriod::Quarterly:
						cnt=4;
						break;
					case MBTPeriod::HalfYearly:
						cnt=2;
						break;
					case MBTPeriod::Annually:
						cnt=1;
						break;
					case MBTPeriod::None:
						cnt=0;
						break;
				}
				delete_from insurancePremium where insurancePremium.AssetInsuranceId == assetInsurance.AssetInsuranceId;
				for (int i = 0; i \< cnt; i++)
				{
					insurancePremium.clear();
					insurancePremium.AssetInsuranceId = assetInsurance.AssetInsuranceId;
					insurancePremium.LineNum = i+1;
					insurancePremium.PremiumAmount = assetInsurance.PremiumAmount;
					insurancePremium.PremiumDueDate = MBTGeneratePremiums::getDueDate(assetInsurance.InsurancePolicyDate, (12/cnt)\*i);
					insurancePremium.insert();
				}
			}
			if(_asynch)
				info("All premiums generated ... asynchronously");
			else
				info("All premiums generated ... synchronously");
		}


5.  Call the previous method from the main method by adding the following line
    of code to the existing main method:

		public static void main(Args \_args)
		{
			MBTAllPremiumGenerate::generateAllPremium(false);
		}


6.  **Create** a new **Action Menu** Item **MBTAllPremiumGenerate.**

7.  **Change** the following **properties:**

    1.  **Object Type: Class**

    2.  **Object: MBTAllPremiumGenerate**

    3.  **Label: Generate all premiums**

8.  Search for form AssetTable in Application Explorer

9.  Right-click on AssetTable and create an extension. It’s OK if this is your
    second extension of the same form

10. A new folder will be created in Solution Explorer named Form Extensions with
    the extended form within it

11. Under Design \> Action Pane \> FixedAsset, there should be a button group
    MBTInsuranceButtonGroup (if not, add a new button group here)

12. Add a new menu button MBTAllPremiumGenerate under MBTInsuranceButtonGroup
    (you can drag it from the Solution Explorer)

13. **Change** the following **properties:**

    1.  **Menu Item Type: Action**

    2.  **Menu Item Name: MBTAllPremiumGenerate**

    3.  **Text: Generate all premiums (sync)**

Task \#2: Asynchronous processing
---------------------------------

1.  In the Solution Explorer, find the folder Form Extensions and the extension
    of AssetTable form within it, then open it in the design canvas.

2.  Under Design \> Action Pane \> FixedAsset \> MBTInsuranceButtonGroup, add a
    new button **AllPremiumAsync**.

3.  Change the **Text** property value to All Premium Generate (Async) for the
    button **AllPremiumAsync.**

4.  Expand the Event node of **AllPremiumAsync** button.

5.  Right-click on the *onClicked* event and click on **Copy event handler
    method**.

6.  Right-click on the project MB500TrainingProjectAsync and add a new class
    AssetTableFormEventHandler

7.  Paste the event handler within the class. This method should be added in the
    class:

		*/// \<summary\>*
		*///*
		*/// \</summary\>*
		*/// \<param name="sender"\>\</param\>*
		*/// \<param name="e"\>\</param\>*
		[FormControlEventHandler(formControlStr(AssetTable, AllPremiumAsync), FormControlEventType::Clicked)]
		public static void AllPremiumAsync_OnClicked(FormControl sender, FormControlEventArgs e)
		{
		}

8.  Add the following piece of code within this method:

		FormButtonControl callerButton = sender as FormButtonControl;
		FormRun form = callerButton.formRun();
		form.runAsync(classNum(MBTAllPremiumGenerate), "generateAllPremium", [true],
		System.Threading.CancellationToken::None);

9.  Save and build the project MB500TrainingProjectAsync

Output

Please note that the module 10 exercise is a prerequisite to testing this
exercise

1.  Navigate to Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps in your browser

2.  Open **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Setup** \> **Vendors** \> **Vendor
    Groups**

3.  Add a new record if it’s not already there:

    1.  Vendor Group: 100

    2.  Description: Insurance Vendor

4.  Open **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Setup** \> **Procurement and sourcing
    parameters**

5.  In the General tab, you will find a field called Insurance Vendor Group;
    select 100 in that field.

6.  Open **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Vendors** \> **All vendors**

7.  Add four new vendors with Vendor group 100.

    1.  Vendor Code: INS0001, Name: Insurance vendor 001

    2.  Vendor Code: INS0002, Name: Insurance vendor 002

    3.  Vendor Code: INS0003, Name: Insurance vendor 003

    4.  Vendor Code: INS0004, Name: Insurance vendor 004

8.  Navigate to the menu **Organization Administration** and execute
    **Organization Administration \> Periodic \> Load Number Sequence**

9.  At the end of the execution, you will get a message “Number sequence loaded”

10. Navigate to the module Fixed Assets and open **Fixed assets** \> **Setup**
    \> **Fixed assets parameters**

11. Go to **Number sequences** tab and you will find a new reference Asset
    Insurance ID. In the Number Sequence code field select Fixe_17

12. Save the record

13. Open the **Data Management** workspace and click on **Framework parameters**

14. In the Entity settings tab, click on the **Refresh entity list** button

15. In the **Data Management** *workspace*, open **Data Entities.** If the list
    is being refreshed you may need to wait a bit. Hit the refresh icon near the
    top right until the **MBTAssetInsuranceEntity** appears.

16. Search for the **MBTAssetInsuranceEntity** and select **Modify target
    mapping** in the action menu

17. Ensure the mapping between Staging and Target is correct

18. In the Data Management workspace, open Import

19. Enter the following data

    1.  Group name: Asset Insurance Import

    2.  Data project operation type: Import

    3.  Click on **+Add file**

    4.  Entity name: **MBTAssetInsuranceEntity**

    5.  Source data format: CSV

    6.  Default refresh type: Full push only

    7.  Click on button **Upload and add** and select *assetInsurance.csv*,
        which is downloadable from <https://aka.ms/mb500labresources>

    8.  Select the **Close** button

20. In the Selected entities line, click on **View map**

21. Click on the **Mapping details** tab and select the Auto-generated checkbox
    in the ASSETINSURANCEID line.

22. Click on Save and close this form

23. Click on the **Import** button in the action pane

24. Go back to the Data management workspace and monitor the status of the
    import process

25. Open the form **Fixed Assets**, under module **Fixed Assets \> Fixed
    Assets**

26. Under the Fixed Asset action pane, find the group Asset Insurance

27. There are two buttons under Asset Insurance:

    1.  Generate All Premium

    2.  All Premium Generate (Async)

>   Functionally both are doing the same job, i.e., generating premium data. But
>   notice the technical differences in the job execution process.

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources may be found at <https://aka.ms/mb500labresources>

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
