---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Lookup filter'
    module: 'Module 05: Code development and testing'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

In this exercise, you will develop code to create a custom lookup on the Vendor
field of the Asset Insurance form. The lookup will filter vendor records based
on Vendor group. A vendor group field is added in Asset Parameters table and
form, which will denote Insurance vendor only. The lookup in the vendor field
will display those vendors, whose vendor group is defined in the Asset
parameters.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual Studio

-   Import the following lab exercises as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

Task \#1: Vendor Lookup
-----------------------

1.  **Right click** on the solution **MB500TrainingSolution**.

2.  Go to **Add \> New Project**.

3.  Select **Dynamics 365 \> Finance Operations**.

4.  In the **Name** field, enter **MB500TrainingProjectCoding**.

5.  Select **OK**. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.


6.  In the Solution Explorer **right click** on the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectCoding**.

7.  Go to **Add \> New Item**.

8.  Go to **Code \> Class**.

9.  In the **Name** field enter **MBTAssetInsuranceFormEventHandler**.

10. Select **Add**.

11. In the Classes folder, a new class **MBTAssetInsuranceFormEventHandler**
    will be added.

12. Find the form **MBTAssetInsuranceDetails** in Solution Explorer (it’s in the
    UI project) and double click it to bring it into the designer

13. Find the control **Identification_VendAccount** under Design \> DetailsGroup
    \> Identification in the form **MBTAssetInsuranceDetails**

14. Expand the Events node of the field **Identification_VendAccount** and
    right-click on the *OnLookup* event to click on the **Copy event handler
    method.**

15. Open the newly created class **MBTAssetInsuranceFormEventHandler** and paste
    the event signature for the lookup method

16. The following method should be added in the class

    **MBTAssetInsuranceFormEventHandler**

		*/// \<summary\>*
		*///*
		*/// \</summary\>*
		*/// \<param name="sender"\>\</param\>*
		*/// \<param name="e"\>\</param\>*
		[FormControlEventHandler(formControlStr(MBTAssetInsuranceDetails, Identification_VendAccount), FormControlEventType::Lookup)]
		public static void Identification_VendAccount_OnLookup(FormControl sender, FormControlEventArgs e)
		{
		}


17. Add the following code in the lookup method:

		FormRun callerFormRun;
		Query query = new Query();
		QueryBuildDataSource queryBuildDataSource;
		QueryBuildRange queryBuildRange;
		MBTAssetInsurance assetInsurance=sender.dataSourceObject().cursor();
		SysTableLookup sysTableLookup=SysTableLookup::newParameters(tableNum(VendTable), sender);

		sysTableLookup.addLookupField(fieldNum(VendTable, AccountNum));
		sysTableLookup.addLookupField(fieldNum(VendTable, Party));
		queryBuildDataSource = query.addDataSource(tableNum(VendTable));
		queryBuildRange = queryBuildDataSource.addRange(fieldNum(VendTable, VendGroup));
		queryBuildRange.value(PurchParameters::find().MBTInsuranceVendGroup);
		sysTableLookup.parmQuery(query);
		sysTableLookup.performFormLookup();

		FormControlCancelableSuperEventArgs formControlCancelSuper = e as
		FormControlCancelableSuperEventArgs;
		formControlCancelSuper.CancelSuperCall();


18. **Save** the Class and build the project.

Output

1.  Navigate to your **Finance and Operations apps** environment in your
    browser.

2.  Open **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Setup** \> **Vendors** \> **Vendor
    Groups**

3.  Add a new record:

    1.  Vendor Group: 100

    2.  Description: Insurance Vendor

4.  Open **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Setup** \> **Procurement and sourcing
    parameters**

5.  In the General tab, you will find a field Insurance Vendor Group; select 100
    in that field.

6.  Open **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Vendors** \> **All vendors**

7.  Add two new vendors with Vendor group 100.

    1.  Vendor account: INS0001, Name: Insurance vendor 001

    2.  Vendor account: INS0002, Name: Insurance vendor 002

8.  Open **Fixed assets** \> **Fixed assets \> Fixed assets**.

9.  In the **Action pane**, go to **Fixed asset \> Asset Insurance \> Insurance
    Details**.

10. Select **New**.

11. Enter a value in the **Asset Insurance ID** field.

12. Check the lookup of the **Vendor Account** field. You will only find two
    vendors (INS0001 & INS0002) with vendor group 100.

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources may be found at <https://aka.ms/mb500labresources>

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
