---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 02: Generate data'
    module: 'Module 05: Code development and testing'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

In this exercise, you will develop code to generate premium data for each
insurance record. Premium calculation will be based on the data entered in the
insurance record.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to *Visual
    Studio*

-   Import the following lab exercises as a prerequisite of this lab *(for
    import instructions, please see appendix)*

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

Task \#1: Task title
--------------------

1.  In the solution **MB500TrainingSolution,** search for project
    **MB500TrainingProjectCode.**

2.  If you do not find the project **MB500TrainingProjectCode:**

    1.  Right click on the solution **MB500TrainingSolution**.

    2.  Go to **Add \> New Project**.

    3.  Select **Dynamics 365 \> Finance and Operations**.

    4.  In the **Name** field, enter **MB500TrainingProjectCode**.

    5.  **Click Add**. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.


3.  In the Solution Explorer **right click** on the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectCode**.

4.  Go to **Add \> New Item**.

5.  Go to **Code \> Runnable Class (Job)**.

6.  In the **Name** field enter **MBTGeneratePremiums** and select **Add**.

7.  In the Classes folder, a new class MBTGeneratePremiums will be added.

8.  It will create a method by default with the following signature:

9.  **Enter** the following code in the **main method**:
  
		MBTAssetInsurance assetInsurance;
		MBTInsurancePremium insurancePremium;
		assetInsurance = _args.record();
		int cnt= 0;
		switch(assetInsurance.Period)
		{
			case MBTPeriod::Monthly:
				cnt=12;
				break;
			case MBTPeriod::Quarterly:
				cnt=4;
				break;
			case MBTPeriod::HalfYearly:
				cnt=2;
				break;
			case MBTPeriod::Annually:
				cnt=1;
				break;
			case MBTPeriod::None:
				cnt=0;
				break;
		}
		delete_from insurancePremium where insurancePremium.AssetInsuranceId ==
		assetInsurance.AssetInsuranceId;
		for (int i = 0; i < cnt; i++)
		{
			insurancePremium.clear();
			insurancePremium.AssetInsuranceId = assetInsurance.AssetInsuranceId;
			insurancePremium.LineNum = i+1;
			insurancePremium.PremiumAmount = assetInsurance.PremiumAmount;
			insurancePremium.PremiumDueDate =
			MBTGeneratePremiums::getDueDate(assetInsurance.InsurancePolicyDate,(12/cnt)*i);
			insurancePremium.insert();
		}

		FormDataSource fds = _args.record().dataSource();
		fds.research(true);
		fds.refresh();


10. **Create** another **method** within the same Class as follows:

		static date getDueDate(date _PolicyDate, int _noOfMnt)
		{
			date premiumDate = _PolicyDate;
			for(int i = 0; i <_noOfMnt; i++)
			{
				premiumDate = nextMth(premiumDate);
			}
			return premiumDate;
		}

11. **Save** the Class.

12. In the Solution Explorer **right click** on the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectCode**.

13. Go to **Add \> New Item**.

14. Go to **User Interface \> Action Menu Item**.

15. In the **Name** field enter **MBTInsurancePremiumGenerate** and select
    **Add.**

16. A new folder will be created called Action Menu Items with a new Action Menu
    Item **MBTInsurancePremiumGenerate** within it.

17. Right click the menu item in the design canvas and select **Properties**.

18. Enter **Class** in **Object Type** field.

19. Enter **MBTGeneratePremium** in the **Object field**.

20. Enter **Generate premium** in the **Label** field.

21. **Right click** on **MB500TrainingProjectCode** and **click Build**.

22. **Click** on **MB500TrainingProjectCode**.

23. **Open** Application Explorer.

24. Go to **AOT \> User Interface \> Forms**.

25. **Search** and select **MBTAssestInsuranceDetails**.

26. **Right click** on **MBTAssestInsuranceDetails** and **click Add to
    project**.

27. Make sure MBTAssestInsuranceDetails form is added under the project
    MB500TrainingProjectCode.

28. **Open** the form **MBTAssetInsuranceDetails**.

29. Go to **Design \> AssetInsuranceActionPane**.

30. **Right click** on **AssetInsuranceActionPane**.

31. **Create** a new **ButtonGroup**, **ActionButtonGroup**.

32. **Drag MBTInsurancePremiumGenerate** from the folder **Action Menu Items**
    and **drop** it under the **ActionButtonGroup**, Button Group.

33. Go to the **property** of **MBTInsurancePremiumGenerate** under
    **ActionButtonGroup**.

34. Enter **MBTAssetInsurance** in the **Data Source** property.

35. Save and build the project **MB500TrainingProjectCode**

*Output*

1.  Navigate to the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps environment in the
    browser.

2.  Open **Fixed assets \> Fixed assets \> Fixed assets**.

3.  In the **Action pane**, go to **Fixed asset \> Asset Insurance \> Insurance
    Details**.

4.  Select **New**.

5.  Enter **12345** in the (upper) **Asset Insurance ID** field.

6.  Enter **1001** in the **Vendor Account** field.

7.  Enter **1111** in the **Policy Number** field.

8.  Enter **10000** in the **Insured Value** field.

9.  Enter **1/1/2021** in the **Insurance Policy Date** field.

10. Enter **100** in the **Premium Amount** field.

11. Select **Save**.

12. Select **Generate Premium**.

13. The premium value should be generated under the Premium tab.

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-  The lab resources can be found by opening the **File explorer** located on the **Taskbar**. then selecting the **Documents** folder and finally selecting the **Course Assets** folder.

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
