---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 03: Perform validation'
    module: 'Module 05: Code development and testing'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

In this exercise, you will develop code to add a validation in the table
MBTAssetInsurance.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual
    Studio

-   Import the following lab exercises as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

Task \#1: Table validation
--------------------------

1.  Find the project **MB500TrainingProjectCode** in the Solution Explorer.

2.  If you do not find the project:

    1.  Right click on the solution **MB500TrainingSolution**.

    2.  Go to **Add \> New Project**.

    3.  Select **Dynamics 365 \> Finance and Operations**.

    4.  In the **Name** field, enter **MB500TrainingProjectCode**.

    5.  Select **Add**. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.

3.  In the Solution Explorer **right click** on the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectCode**.

4.  Go to **Add \> New Item**.

5.  Go to **Code \> Class**.

6.  In the **Name** field enter **MBTAssetInsuranceTableEventHandler** and
    select **Add**.

7.  In the Classes folder, a new class **MBTAssetInsuranceTableEventHandler**
    will be added.

8.  In the Solution Explorer, find and open table **MBTAssetInsurance** from the
    project **MB500TrainingProjectDataModel**

9.  Expand the Events node and find the event *onValidatedWrite*

10. Right click the event *onValidatedWrite* and click on **Copy event handler
    method.**

11. Open class **MBTAssetInsuranceTableEventHandler** and paste the copied event
    handler signature within the brackets. It will look like this:

		/// <summary>
		///
		/// </summary>
		/// <param name="sender"></param>
		/// <param name="e"></param>
		[DataEventHandler(tableStr(MBTAssetInsurance), DataEventType::ValidatedWrite)]
		public static void MBTAssetInsurance_onValidatedWrite(Common sender, DataEventArgs e)
		{
		}

12. **Enter** the following code within the MBTAssetInsurance_onValidatedWrite
    **method**:

		ValidateEventArgs validateArgs = e as ValidateEventArgs;
		MBTAssetInsurance assetInsurance = sender as MBTAssetInsurance;
		boolean result = validateArgs.parmValidateResult();
		if (assetInsurance.Period == MBTPeriod::None)
		{
		   result = checkFailed("Enter the Premium Payment Period");
			validateArgs.parmValidateResult(result);
		}

13. Save the class and build the project **MB500TrainingProjectCode**

Output
======

1.  Navigate to your Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations environment from
    browser.

2.  Open **Fixed assets \> Fixed assets \> Fixed assets**.

3.  In the **Action pane**, navigate to **Fixed asset \> Asset Insurance \>
    Insurance Details**.

4.  Select **New**.

5.  Enter **12345** in the **Asset Insurance ID** field.

6.  Enter **1001** in the **Vendor Account** field.

7.  Enter **1111** in the **Policy Number** field.

8.  Enter **10000** in the **Insured Value** field.

9.  Enter **1/1/2021** in the **Insurance Policy Date** field.

10. Enter **100** in the **Premium Amount** field.

11. In the **Premium Payment** field select *Not Applicable*.

12. An error message should appear when you try to save the record.

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources can be found by opening the **File explorer** located on the **Taskbar**. then selecting the **Documents** folder and finally selecting the **Course Assets** folder.

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
