---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Extend the number sequence framework'
    module: 'Module 06: Frameworks'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Scenario
========

In this lab, number sequence framework is extended to create a new number
sequence for the asset insurance transactions under Fixed Asset.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual Studio

-   Import the following lab exercises as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectCode.axpp

Task \#1: Asset insurance number sequence
-----------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the Visual Studio solution under Solution Explorer.

2.  Click on Add \> New project and create a new project
    **MB500TrainingProjectExtension**. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.


    *To create a new number sequence, first you need to add the number sequence
    in the LoadModule() method of the list of number sequences specific to the
    module. We are planning to create a new number sequence in the Fixed Asset
    module; hence we need to create a Chain of Control for the class
    NumberSeqModuleAsset.*

3.  Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** and create a
    new class **NumberSeqModuleAsset_Extension**

4.  This should be the signature of the class (rather than the default):

		[ExtensionOf(classStr(NumberSeqModuleAsset))]
		final class NumberSeqModuleAsset_Extension
		{
		}

5.  A new chain of control should be created for the method LoadModule() to add
    the new number sequence for the Asset insurance transaction. This will be
    the code:

		protected void loadModule()
		{
			next loadModule();
			NumberSeqDatatype datatype = 	NumberSeqDatatype::construct();
			//Setup Asset Insurance Number
			datatype.parmDatatypeId(extendedtypenum(MBTAssetInsuranceId));
			datatype.parmReferenceHelp("Asset Insurance Id");
			datatype.parmWizardIsContinuous(false);
			datatype.parmWizardIsManual(NoYes::No);
			datatype.parmWizardIsChangeDownAllowed(NoYes::No);
			datatype.parmWizardIsChangeUpAllowed(NoYes::No);
			datatype.parmSortField(8);
			datatype.addParameterType(NumberSeqParameterType::DataArea, true, false);
			this.create(datatype);
		}

    *The AssetParameters class is extended to add a new method to create
    reference of the asset insurance number sequence.*

6.  Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** and click on
    Add \> New item to create a new class **AssetParameters_Extension** with the
    following signature

		[ExtensionOf(tableStr(AssetParameters))]
		final class AssetParameters_Extension
		{
		}

7.  Create a new method **numRefMBTAssetInsuranceId** in the class to refer to
    the Asset Insurance transaction id.

    *You need to call the number sequence framework when a new record is added
    in the Asset Insurance table*

		public static NumberSequenceReference numRefMBTAssetInsuranceId()
		{
			return NumberSeqReference::findReference(extendedTypeNum(MBTAssetInsuranceId));
		}

8.  Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** and click on
    Add \> New item to create a new class
    **MBTAssetInsuranceTableEventHandler2**

9.  Open table **MBTAssetInsurance** from Solution Explorer and expand the
    Events node.

10. Right click the *onInitializedRecord* and click on **Copy event handler
    method**.

11. Paste the event handler method within the newly created class
    **MBTAssetInsuranceTableEventHandler2**

12. This will be the signature of the class: (there should be no backslashes)

		/// \<summary\>
		///
		/// \</summary\>
		/// \<param name="sender"\>\</param\>
		/// \<param name="e"\>\</param\>
		[DataEventHandler(tableStr(MBTAssetInsurance),DataEventType::InitializedRecord)]
		public static void MBTAssetInsurance_onInitializedRecord(Common sender,DataEventArgs e)
		{
		}

13. Add the following code within the class (noting that you already have the
    first two and last one lines):

		public static void MBTAssetInsurance_onInitializedRecord(Common sender,
		DataEventArgs e)
		{
			MBTAssetInsurance assetInsurance = sender as MBTAssetInsurance;
			NumberSeq NumSeq;
			NumSeq = NumberSeq::newGetNum(AssetParameters::numRefMBTAssetInsuranceId(),true);
			assetInsurance.AssetInsuranceId = NumSeq.num();
		}

    *Create a job to reload all the number sequence modules.*

14. Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** and click on
    Add \> New item to create a new Runnable class (job) **MBTNumberSeqLoadAll**

15. The class is created with a default *main* method as follows:

		class MBTNumberSeqLoadAll
		{
			/// \<summary\>
			/// Runs the class with the specified arguments.
			/// \</summary\>
			/// \<param name = "_args"\>The specified arguments.\</param\>
			public static void main(Args \_args)
			{
			}
		}

16. Add these two lines of code in the *main* method:

		public static void main(Args \_args)
		{
			NumberSeqApplicationModule::loadAll();
			info("Number sequence loaded");
		}

17. Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** and click on
    Add \> New

18. Select Action Menu Item within User Interface and create a new action menu
    item **MBTNumberSeqLoadAll**

19. A new folder Action Menu Items will be created in the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** with the action menu item
    **MBTNumberSeqLoadAll** in it.

20. Open the action menu item **MBTNumberSeqLoadAll** in the designer and right
    click on it to open the properties pane

21. Change the following properties of the action menu item
    **MBTNumberSeqLoadAll**

    1.  **Label**: Load number sequence

    2.  **Object type**: Class

    3.  **Object**: MBTNumberSeqLoadAll

22. In the application explorer, search for menu **OrganizationAdministration**

23. Right click on the menu **OrganizationAdministration** and click on Create
    extension

24. A new folder Menu Extensions will be created in the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectExtension** with the menu extension
    **OrganizationAdministration.MB500Training** in it.

25. Open **OrganizationAdministration.MB500Training** in the designer

26. Drag action menu item **MBTNumberSeqLoadAll** from Solution Explorer and
    drop it to the *Periodic* folder in
    **OrganizationAdministration.MB500Training**

27. Save and build the project **MB500TrainingProjectExtension**

Lab solution
============

1.  Navigate to the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps instance in the
    browser and execute **Organization Administration** \> **Periodic** \>
    **Load Number Sequence**

2.  At the end of the execution, you will get a message “Number sequence loaded”

3.  Navigate to Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations instance and open **Fixed
    assets** \> **Setup** \> **Fixed assets parameters**

4.  Go to the **Number sequences** tab and you will find a new reference Asset
    Insurance ID. In the Number Sequence code field select Fixe_17

5.  **Save** the record

6.  Go to the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps instance and open **Fixed
    assets** \> **Fixed assets** \> **Fixed assets**

7.  Open the Asset insurance form by selecting on the action pane **Fixed
    asset** \> **Asset Insurance** \> **Insurance Details**

8.  Select the **New** button in the action pane.

9.  A new record will be created with Asset Insurance ID auto-updated from the
    Number sequence framework.

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources can be found by opening the **File explorer** located on the **Taskbar**. then selecting the **Documents** folder and finally selecting the **Course Assets** folder.

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
