---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Create tables'
    module: 'Module 04: AOT Elements'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

1.  In this lab you will create new tables AssetInsurance and InsurancePremium
    to capture the insurance record for fixed assets. You will create all
    required indexes and relations in those tables.

2.  You will also add a new field in the standard table PurchParameters.

Prerequisite
============

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual Studio

-   Import the following lab exercise as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp 

Lab solution
============

Task \#1: Create a new Base Enumeration 
----------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the Visual Studio solution under Solution Explorer.  

M4E1T1

2.  Click on **Add > New project**. Select **Finance Operations** project template and click **Next**. Enter MB500TrainingProjectDataModel in the Project name field; select Create.   

3.   Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectDataModel**.

4.  Select **Add \> New Item**.

5.  Select **Data Types \>Base Enum**.

6.  In the **Name** field, enter **MBTPeriod**.

7.  Select **Add**.

8.  A new folder will be created in Solution Explorer called Base Enums with a
    new Enum MBTPeriod within it.

9.  Open **MBTPeriod** in the editor if not already opened, by double clicking
    it.

10. **Right click** on the **MBTPeriod** in the editor and select
    **Properties**.

11. The Properties window typically appears in the lower right. In the **Label**
    enter **Premium payment**. You can drag the window bigger.

12. Right click on the **MBTPeriod** in the editor.

13. Select **New Element**.

14. A new element will be created called BaseEnumValue1.

15. Highlight **BaseEnumValue1**.

16. In the **Name** property value enter **None**.

17. In the **Label** enter **Not Applicable**.

18. In the same way (repeating steps 12-17) add the following four new Enum elements:

| **Name**       | **Label**       |
|----------------|-----------------|
| **Monthly**    | **Monthly**     |
| **Quarterly**  | **Quarterly**   |
| **HalfYearly** | **Half Yearly** |
| **Annually**   | **Annually**    |

19. Select the **Save** icon.


Task \#2: Create a new EDT String
---------------------------------

1.  Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectDataModel**.

2.  Select **Add \> New Item**.

3.  Select **Data Types \> EDT String**.

4.  In the **Name** field, enter **MBTAssetInsuranceID**.

5.  Select **Add.**

6.  A new folder will be created in Solution Explorer called EDT Strings with a
    new EDTString, MBTAssetInsuranceID within it.

7.  Open **MBTAssetInsuranceID** in the editor if not already opened.

8.  Right click on the **MBTAssetInsuranceID** in the editor.

9.  Select **Properties**.

10. In the **Label** enter **Asset insurance ID**.

Task \#3: Create a Table MBTAssetInsurance and add fields
---------------------------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the project **MB500TrainingProjectDataModel**.

2.  Click on **Add \> New Item**.

3.  Select **Data Model \> Table**.

4.  In the **Name** field, enter **MBTAssetInsurance**.

5.  Select **Add**.

6.  A new folder will be created in Solution Explorer called Tables with a new
    table, MBTAssetInsurance within it.

7.  Open the table **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor if not already opened.

8.  In the Action pane, select **View \> Application Explorer**.

9.  In the Application Explorer, **search** for **AssetID** within **AOT \> Data
    Types \> Extended Data Types**.

10. Drag **AssetID** and drop it on the **Fields** node of the table
    **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

11. Drag **MBTAssetInsuranceID** from the Solution Explorer and drop it on the
    **Fields** node of the table **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

12. Go to the **Name** property of the field **MBTAssetInsuranceID** and
    **remove** the **MBT prefix** from the name (this is best practice).

13. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **VendAccount** within **AOT \>
    Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

14. Drag **VendAccount** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of the table
    **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

15. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **TransDate** within **AOT \>
    Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

16. **Drag TransDate** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of the table
    **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

17. Go to the **Name** property of the field **TransDate** and enter
    **InsurancePolicyDate**.

18. In the **Label** property enter **Insurance Policy Date**.

19. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **AssetPolicyExpiration** within
    **AOT \> Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

20. **Drag AssetPolicyExpiration** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of the
    table **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

21. Go to the **Name** property of the field **AssetPolicyExpiration** and enter
    **PolicyExpiration**.

22. In the **Label** property enter **Policy Expiry Date**.

23. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **AssetInsurancePolicyNum**
    within **AOT \> Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

24. **Drag AssetInsurancePolicyNum** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of
    the table **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

25. Go to the **Name** property of the field **AssetInsurancePolicyNum** and
    enter **InsurancePolicyNum**.

26. In the **Label** property enter **Policy number**.

27. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **AssetInsuredValue** within
    **AOT \> Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

28. **Drag AssetInsuredValue** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of the
    table **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

29. Go to the **Name** property of the field **AssetInsuredValue** and enter
    **InsuredValue**.

30. In the **Label** property enter **Insured value**.

31. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **AssetPolicyAmount** within
    **AOT \> Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

32. **Drag AssetPolicyAmount** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of the
    table **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

33. Go to the **Name** property of the field **AssetPolicyAmount** and enter
    **PremiumAmount**.

34. In the **Label** property enter **Premium amount**.

35. From the Solution Explorer **drag MBTPeriod** and **drop** it on the
    **Fields** node of the table **MBTAssetInsurance**.

36. Go to the **Name** property of the field **MBTPeriod** and **remove** the
    **MBT** prefix from the name.

37. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **AssetInsuranceAgent** within
    **AOT \> Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

38. **Drag AssetInsuranceAgent** and **drop** it on the Fields node of the table
    **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

39. Go to the **Name** property of the field **AssetInsuranceAgent** and enter
    **InsuranceAgent**.

40. In the **Label** property enter **Insurance Agent**.

41. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **Description** within **AOT \>
    Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

42. **Drag Description** and **drop** it on the **Fields** node of the table
    **MBTAssetInsurance** in the editor.

43. Go to the **Name** property of the field **Description** and enter
    **PolicyDescription**.

44. In the Label property enter **Policy description**.

45. Select the **Save All** icon and verify that the table compiles.

Task \#4: Create New Field groups for MBTAssetInsurance Table
-------------------------------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the **Field groups** node of the **MBTAssetInsurance** Table
    and add a **New Group**.

2.  Enter **Identification** as the **Name** and **Label** of the **Group**.

3.  Drag the following fields from the **Fields** node to the **Identification
    Field group**.

    1.  **AssetInsuranceId**

    2.  **VendAccount**

    3.  **InsuranceAgent**

4.  Right click on the **Field groups** node of the **MBTAssetInsurance** Table
    and **add** a **New Group**.

5.  Enter **Description** as the **Name** and **Label** of the Group.

6.  Drag the field **PolicyDescription** from the **Fields** node to the
    **Description Field group**.

7.  Right click on the **Field groups** node of the **MBTAssetInsurance** Table
    and add a **New Group**.

8.  Enter **Policy** as the **Name** and **Label** of the **Group**.

9.  Drag the following fields from the **Fields** node to the **Policy Field
    group**.

    1.  **InsurancePolicyDate**

    2.  **PolicyExpiration**

    3.  **InsurancePolicyNum**

    4.  **InsuredValue**

    5.  **PremiumAmount**

    6.  **Period**

10. Save all.  You may close the **Field Groups** node.

Task \#5: Create New Indexes for MBTAssetInsurance Table
--------------------------------------------------------

1.  **Right click** on the **Indexes** node of the **MBTAssetInsurance** Table
    and select **New Index**.

2.  In the **Name** field of the **Index** property pane enter
    **AssetInsuranceIdIdx**.

3.  Set **Alternate Key** to **Yes**.

4.  **Drag** the **AssetInsuranceId** field from the **Fields** node and
    **drop** it under the index **AssetInsuranceIdIdx**.  You may close the **Indexes** node.


Task \#6: Create New Relations for MBTAssetInsurance Table
----------------------------------------------------------

1.  Under the **Relations** node, create a **New Relation** named **AssetId**.

2.  Change the **property** values of the **AssetId** Relation as follows:

| **Property Name**             | **Value**       |
|-------------------------------|-----------------|
| **Related Table**             | **AssetTable**  |
| **Cardinality**               | **ZeroMore**    |
| **Related Table Cardinality** | **ZeroOne**     |
| **Relationship Type**         | **Association** |
| **On Delete**                 | **Restricted**  |

3.  Right click on the **AssetId** relation and select **New \> Normal**.

4.  In the property window, select **Field** value as **AssetId** and **Related
    Field** value as **AssetId**.

5.  Under the **Relations** node, create a **New Relation** named
    **InsuranceVendor**.

6.  Change the property values of the **InsuranceVendor** Relation as follows:

| **Property Name**             | **Value**       |
|-------------------------------|-----------------|
| **Related Table**             | **VendTable**   |
| **Cardinality**               | **ZeroMore**    |
| **Related Table Cardinality** | **ZeroOne**     |
| **Relationship Type**         | **Association** |
| **On Delete**                 | **Restricted**  |

7.  **Right click** on the **InsuranceVendor** relation and select **New \>
    Normal**.

8.  In the properties, select **Field** value as **VendAccount** and **Related
    Field** value as **AccountNum**.

9.  Save all.

Task \#7: Create Table MBTInsurancePremium and Add Fields
---------------------------------------------------------

1.  **Right click** on the project **MB500TrainingProjectDataModel**.

2.  Select **Add \> New Item**.

3.  Select **Data Model \> Table**.

4.  In the **Name** field, enter **MBTInsurancePremium**.

5.  Select **Add**.

6.  The existing folder Tables will have a new table MBTInsurancePremium within
    it.

7.  Open the table **MBTInsurancePremium** in the editor if not already opened.

8.  Drag EDT **MBTAssetInsuranceID** from the Solution Explorer and drop it on the
    **Fields** node of the table **MBTInsurancePremium** in the editor.

9.  Go to the **Name** property of the field **MBTAssetInsuranceID** and remove
    the **MBT prefix** from the name.

10. In the Action pane, select **View \> Application Explorer** if not already
    open.

11. In the Application Explorer, search for **Counter** within **AOT \> Data
    Types \> Extended Data Types**.

12. Drag **Counter** and drop it on the **Fields** node of the table
    **MBTInsurancePremium** in the editor.

13. In the **Name** property of the field **Description** enter **LineNum**.

14. In the **Label** property enter **Line number**.

15. In the Application Explorer, search for **AssetPolicyAmount** within **AOT
    \> Data Types \> Extended Data Types**.

16. Drag **AssetPolicyAmount** and drop it on the **Fields** node of the table
    **MBTInsurancePremium** in the editor.

17. In the **Name** property of the field **Description** enter
    **PremiumAmount**.

18. In the **Label** property enter **Premium Amount**.

19. In the Application Explorer, **search** for **TransDate** within **AOT \>
    Data Types \> Extended Data Types** and drag it to the **Fields** node of
    the table **MBTInsurancePremium** in the editor.

20. In the **Name** property of the field **Description** enter
    **PremiumDueDate**.

21. In the **Label** property enter **Premium due date**.

22. In the Application Explorer, search for **TransDate** within **AOT \> Data
    Types \> Extended Data Types**, and drag it to the **Fields** node of the
    table **MBTInsurancePremium** in the editor.

23. Go to the **Name** property of the field Description and enter
    **PaymentDate**.

24. In the **Label** property enter **Payment Date**.

Task \#8: Create New Field groups for MBTInsurancePremium Table
---------------------------------------------------------------

1.  **Right click** on the **Field groups** node of the **MBTInsurancePremium**
    Table and add a **New Group**.

2.  Enter **InsurancePremium** as the **Name** and **Label** of the **Group**.

3.  **Drag** the following **fields** from the **Fields** node to the
    **InsurancePremium** Field group.

    1.  **AssetInsuranceId**

    2.  **LineNum**

    3.  **PremiumAmount**

    4.  **PremiumDueDate**

    5.  **PaymentDate**

4. You may close the **Field groups** node.

Task \#9: Create a new Index for the MBTInsurancePremium Table
--------------------------------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the **Indexes** node of the **MBTInsurancePremium** Table and
    add a **New Index**.

2.  In the **Name** field of the **Index** property pane enter
    **InsurancePremiumIdx**.

3.  Drag the **AssetInsuranceId** field from the **Fields** node and drop it
    under the index **InsurancePremiumIdx**.

Task \#10: Create a New Relation for the MBTInsurancePremium Table
------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  **Drag** the **LineNum** field from the **Fields** node and drop it under
    the index **InsurancePremiumIdx**.

2.  Under the **Relations** node, **create** a new **Relation** named
    **AssetInsurance**.

3.  **Change** the **property** values of the **AssetInsurance** Relation as
    follows:

| **Property Name**                                                                                                                     | **Value**             |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| **Related Table**                                                                                                                     | **MBTAssetInsurance** |
| **Cardinality**                                                                                                                       | **ZeroMore**          |
| **Related Table Cardinality**                                                                                                         | **ZeroOne**           |
| **Relationship Type**                                                                                                                 | **Association**       |
| **On Delete**                                                                                                                         | **Cascade**           |

4. Right click the relation, and select a new Normal one. **MBTInsurancePremium.AssetInsuranceId == MBTAssetInsurance.AssetInsuranceId** 


Task \#11: Add a new field in the PurchParameters Table
-------------------------------------------------------

1.  Search for the **PurchParameters** table from the Application Explorer Data
    Model Tables, right click on it, and select **Create extension**

2.  A new folder **Table Extensions** will be created in the project
    **MB500TrainingProjectDataModel** under the Solution Explorer with the
    PurchParameters extension table in it

3.  Open the **PurchParameters** extension table in the designer by double
    clicking it

4.  Add a new string field in the extension table named
    **MBTInsuranceVendGroup**

5.  Enter **VendGroupId** in the Extended Data Type and **Insurance Vendor
    Group** in the Label property of the MBTInsuranceVendGroup field

6.  Open the field group **DefaultValues** and add MBTInsuranceVendGroup in that
    field group

7.  Open the relations node and add a new relation InsuranceVendorGroup

| **Property Name**                                                                                                                  | **Value**   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| **Related Table**                                                                                                                  | VendGroup   |
| **Cardinality**                                                                                                                    | ZeroMore    |
| **Related Table Cardinality**                                                                                                      | ZeroOne     |
| **Relationship Type**                                                                                                              | Association |
| **On Delete**                                                                                                                      | Restricted  |


8. Right click the relation, and select a new Normal one. PurchParameters.MB500Training. MBTInsuranceVendGroup == VendGroup.VendGroup

9.  Save all and verify that the project builds.

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources may be found at <https://aka.ms/mb500labresources>

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import (.\Documents\Course Assets)

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
