---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Create a data entity and import data'
    module: 'Module 10: Data migration'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

In this lab, Asset Insurance data will be imported from a csv file into Dynamics
365 Finance and Operations. You need to develop a data entity to import the
asset insurance data.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to *Visual Studio*

-   Import the following lab exercise as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectCode.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectExtension.axpp

Task \#1: Import Asset insurance data
-------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the Training solution under Solution Explorer.

2.  Click on Add \> New project and create a new project
    **MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement**. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.


3.  Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement** and go to
    Add \> New Item

4.  Select Data Entity under Data Model to create a new data entity
    **MBTAssetInsuranceEntity**

5.  A wizard will popup, where you enter the following and select **Next**.

    1.  Primary datasource: MBTAssetInsurance

    2.  Enable public API: Checked

    3.  Public entity name: AssetInsurance

    4.  Public collection name: AssetInsurances

    5.  Enable data management capabilities: Checked

    6.  Staging table: MBTAssetInsuranceStaging

    7.  View privilege: MBTAssetInsuranceEntityView

    8.  Maintain privilege: MBTAssetInsuranceEntityMaintain

6.  Make sure all the fields are checked, except DataAreaId.

7.  Select **Finish**.

8.  A new folder Data Entities will be created under project
    **MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement** in the Solution Explorer with the new
    data entity **MBTAssetInsuranceEntity** within it.

9.  Another folder Tables will be created under project
    **MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement** in the Solution Explorer with the new
    table **MBTAssetInsuranceStaging** within it.

10. Another folder Security Privileges will be created under project
    **MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement** in the Solution Explorer with two new
    security privileges **MBTAssetInsuranceEntityView** and
    **MBTAssetInsuranceEntityMaintain** within it.

11. Save and build the project **MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement**

Output

1.  Open the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps portal from your browser

2.  Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Setup \> Vendors \> Vendor Groups**

3.  Add a new record if not already there:

    1.  Vendor Group: 100

    2.  Description: Insurance Vendor

4.  Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Setup \> Procurement and sourcing
    parameters**

5.  In the **General** tab, you will find a field Insurance Vendor Group; select
    100 in that field.

6.  Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Vendors \> All vendors**

7.  Add four new vendors (if not already there) with Vendor group 100.

    1.  Vendor Code: INS0001, Name: Insurance vendor 001

    2.  Vendor Code: INS0002, Name: Insurance vendor 002

    3.  Vendor Code: INS0003, Name: Insurance vendor 003

    4.  Vendor Code: INS0004, Name: Insurance vendor 004

8.  Navigate to the menu **Organization Administration** and execute
    **Organization Administration \> Periodic \> Load Number Sequence**

9.  At the end of the execution, you will get a message “Number sequence loaded”

10. Navigate to the module **Fixed Assets** and open **Fixed assets \> Setup \>
    Fixed assets parameters**

11. Go to the **Number sequences** tab and you will find a new reference Asset
    Insurance ID. In the Number Sequence code field select Fixe_17

12. Save the record

13. Open **Data Management** *workspace* and select **Framework parameters**

14. In the Entity settings tab, click on the **Refresh entity list** button

15. In the **Data Management** workspace, open **Data entities**

16. Search for the **MBTAssetInsuranceEntity** and select **Modify target
    mapping** in the action menu

17. Ensure the mapping between Staging and Target is correct

18. In the Data Management workspace, open Import

19. Enter the following data:

    1.  Group name: Asset Insurance Import

    2.  Data project operation type: Import

    3.  Select **+Add file**

    4.  Entity name: MBTAssetInsuranceEntity

    5.  Source data format: CSV

    6.  Default refresh type: Full push only

    7.  Select button **Upload and add** and select *assetInsurance.csv* from
        the resources – it may be provided to you or you can download from
        <https://aka.ms/mb500labresources>

    8.  Select the **Close** button

20. In the Selected entities line, select **View map**

21. Select the **Mapping details** tab and select the Auto-generated checkbox in
    the ASSETINSURANCEID line.

22. Click on Save and close this form

23. Click on the **Import** button in the action pane

24. Go back to the Data management workspace and monitor the status of the
    import process

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources may be found at <https://aka.ms/mb500labresources>

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
