---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Development Environment Configuration'
    module: 'Module 01: Overview and architecture'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |




Scenario
========

Create an Excel workbook template to integrate Vendor Group data using
[Microsoft Dynamics Office
Add-in](https://appsource.microsoft.com/en-us/product/office/wa104379629?tab=overview).
Add a new Vendor group in the Excel workbook and sync the vendor group with
Finance and Operations through OData Endpoint.

Lab solution
============

Task \#1: Create template
-------------------------

1.  You may need to run AdminUserProvisioning; follow the lab machine’s
    instructions.

2.  Navigate to the browser interface. Sign in with the credentials provided to
    you.

    1.  If you use Edge, it might give a warning; you can use **Advanced** and
        **Continue** to safely bypass.

    2.  If you get an error that a service is not running, restart the browser first, then the machine if necessary.

3.  Navigate to **Modules** \> **Common** \> **Common** \> **Office
    Integration** \> **Excel Workbook Designer**. Note that most navigation is
    via **Modules**, so this is not typically specified.

4.  **Search** for **VendorGroup** in the filter.

5.  From the list of available fields **select** the fields **Vendor group**,
    **Description**, and **Terms of payment** and move them to the selected
    field box by selecting the right Arrow.

6.  Select the **Create workbook** button on the action pane.

7.  Select the **Download** button in the **Save To panel** on the right side.

8.  Download the file by selecting **Save As** and store it in the **Downloads**
    folder.

9.  Navigate to **Common** \> **Office Integration** \> **Document templates.**

10. Select **New**.

11. On the right panel in the **Upload template** section select the **browse**
    button and select the file downloaded previously (if you used the default
    name, it’s DynamicsWorkbook).

12. Enter **CustomVendorGroup** in the **Template name** field.

13. Select **OK**.

14. Click **Save**.

Task \#2: Open in Excel
-----------------------

1.  Navigate to **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Setup** \> **Vendors** \>
    **Vendor groups**.

2.  If you select **Open in Microsoft Office** \> **Open in Excel**, you will
    find the new template, **CustomVendorGroup** that you had uploaded.

3.  **Select CustomVendorGroup** and download the Excel template.

4.  **Save** and then **Open** the downloaded **Excel, Allow** it if needed**,
    Close** activation, and Select **Enable editing**. Trust this add-in. Sign
    in (using your same credentials, if asked).

5.  All the existing data of the Vendor group table will appear in the Excel
    spreadsheet.

6.  Enter a new record.

7.  **Enter 100** in the field **Vendor group**, **Insurance Vendor** in the
    **Description** field and **Net10** in the **Terms of payment** field.

8.  Select the **Publish** button in the **Microsoft Dynamics Office Add-in
    app**.

9.  **Open** the **Vendor group form** to check the new record is added.
