---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Configuring Visual Studio and new Package/Model/Project creation'
    module: 'Module 03: Developer tools'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Configuring Visual Studio and new Package/Model/Project creation

Scenario
========

1.  In this lab, you will configure the Visual Studio 2015 for Dynamics 365
    Finance and Operations apps development work.

2.  In this lab, you will create a new Package and Model. Then you will create a
    Visual Studio Project, where you will develop an executable class.

Prerequisite
============

To execute this exercise, you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations
apps development environment with access to Visual Studio.

Lab solution
============

Task \#1: Setup Visual Studio 2019
----------------------------------

1.  **Right click** on the **Visual Studio 2019** icon on the desktop and **Run
    as administrator**.

2.  Select **Dynamics 365 \> Options**.

3.  Select **Dynamics 365 \> Projects** and make sure these checkboxes are
    selected:

    1.  **Organize projects by element type**

    2.  **Synchronize database on build for newly created project**

4.  Select **Dynamics 365 \> Best Practices** and check the following, all
    beginning with “Microsoft.Dynamics.AX.Framework.”:

    1.  **CustomizationAnalysisRules**

    2.  **DataAccessRules**

    3.  **DataMethodRules**

    4.  **DeprecatedElementsRules**

    5.  **Services.OData.Rules**

5.  Navigate up to **Text Editor \> All Languages \> General**.

6.  Select the **Line numbers** check box (twice, if necessary, until a
    checkmark appears).

7.  Select **OK**.

Task \#2: Create new Package and Model
--------------------------------------

1.  Navigate to **Dynamics 365 \> Model Management \> Create model**.

2.  Enter **MB500Training** in the **Model name** field, **Microsoft** in the
    **Model publisher field**, and **MB-500 Training** in the **Model display
    name** field, and select **Next**.

3.  Select **Create new package**, and select **Next**.

4.  Check the **following** packages, then select **Next**.

    1.  ApplicationPlatform (default)

    2.  ApplicationSuite

    3.  ApplicationFoundation

    4.  ApplicationWorkspaces

    5.  ContactPerson

    6.  Directory

    7.  PersonnelCore

5.  The **Create new project** and **Make this my default model for new
    projects** checkboxes should be **checked**, and select **Finish**.

6.  In a moment, a new project dialogue box will appear.

7.  Select **Finance Operations**.

8.  Enter **MB500TrainingProject** in the **Name** field.

9.  Enter **MB500TrainingSolution** in the **Solution name** field, and select
    **OK**.

10. A new solution and project will be created under Solution Explorer.

11. **Right click** on the project, which is the node below the solution.

12. Go to **Add \> New Item**.

13. Under **Code**, select **Runnable Class (Job).**

14. Enter **MBTHelloWorld** in the **Name** field, and select **Add**.

15. A new folder Classes will be created under MB500TrainingProject and a new
    Class MBTHelloWorld is created under the Classes folder.

16. Open **MBTHelloWorld Class** in the editor if not already open.

17. Within the **main method** (as shown) add the info line in the below:



		public static void main(Args _args)
		{
       		info("Hello World");
		}


18. Select the **Save** icon.

19. **Right click** on the **MB500TrainingProject**.

20. Select **Properties**.

21. Select the value **MBTHelloWorld** in the **Startup Object** field.

22. Enter **USMF** in the **Company** field.

23. Check that the value in the **Synchronize Database on Build** field is
    **True**.

24. Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**. 

25. Select **Apply** and **OK**.

26. **Right click** on the **MB500TrainingProject** and select **Build**. Check
    the output in the pane.

27. Select the **Start** button on the Action pane.

28. The Finance and Operations apps instance will open in your browser with an
    Infolog of **Hello World** after a moment.

29. Close the browser.
