---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: User interface development'
    module: 'Module 04: AOT Elements'
---



Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


User Interface Development

Scenario
========

A new Form is needed to capture the Asset Insurance information and premium
details. Add a new button in the Asset Table from where the Asset Insurance form
can be opened. Make the insurance tab of the Asset table form un-editable

Prerequisite
============

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual Studio

-   Import the following lab exercises as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

    -   MB500TrainingProject.axpp 

    -   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp 

Lab solution
============

Task \#1: Add a new form MBTAssetInsuranceDetails
-------------------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the Visual Studio solution under Solution Explorer.  

2.  Click on Add -\> New project and create a new
    project **MB500TrainingProjectUI**.


3.  In your project, add a New Item in User Interface of type Form, and Name it
    MBTAssetInsuranceDetails

4.  **Add** these tables in the **Data Sources** node of the form:

    1.  **MBTAssetInsurance.**

    2.  **MBTInsurancePremium**

5.  **Update** this property of the **MBTAssetInsurance** datasource

    1.  **Index: AssetInsuranceIdIdx**

6.  **Update** these properties of the **MBTInsurancePremium** datasource

    1.  **Index: InsurancePremiumIdx**

    2.  **Join Source: MBTAssetInsurance**

7.  Right click on the **Design \| Pattern** node and select **Apply Pattern \>
    Simple List and Details \> List Grid.**

8.  Right click on the **Design \| Pattern** node and select **New \> Action
    Pane.**

9.  In the Action pane property rename the **Name** property to
    **AssetInsuranceActionPane.**

10. Go to **Design \| Pattern** node and select **New \> Group.**

11. Go to **Design \| Pattern** node and select **New \> Group** a second time.

12. Go to **Design \| Pattern** node and select **New \> Tab.**

13. In the first Group control, there will not be any suffix, like “\| Pattern:
    \<unspecified\>”.

14. Rename this group to **NavigationGroup.**

15. In the second Group control, there will be a suffix, like “\| Pattern:
    \<unspecified\>”.

16. Rename this group to **DetailsGroup.**

17. Rename the tab to **DetailsTab.**

18. Right click on the group **NavigationGroup** and select **New \>
    QuickFilter.**

19. Rename the **QuickFilter** control to **QuickFilterControl.**

20. In the **Properties** pane of the **QuickFilterControl** enter the following
    properties:

| **Property**       | **Value**                          |
|--------------------|------------------------------------|
| **Target Control** | Grid                               |
| **Default Column** | MBTAssetInsurance_AssetInsuranceId |

21. Right click on the group **NavigationGroup** and select **New \> Grid.**

22. Rename the **Grid control** to **Grid.**

23. In the **Properties** pane of the **Grid** control under **NavigationGroup**
    enter the following **properties:**

| **Property**    | **Value**         |
|-----------------|-------------------|
| **Data Source** | MBTAssetInsurance |

24. Drag these **fields** from the **MBTAssetInsurance** data source and drop on
    the **Grid** control under **NavigationGroup**

    1.  **AssetInsuranceId**

    2.  **InsuredValue**

25. Right click on the group **DetailsGroup** and select **Apply Pattern \>
    Fields and Field Groups.**

26. Drag the **Identification** field group from the MBTAssetInsurance
    datasource and drop it on the group **DetailsGroup**

27. In the **Properties** pane of the **Identification** group control under
    **DetailsGroup** enter the following **properties:**

| **Property** | **Value** |
|--------------|-----------|
| **Style**    | Card      |

28. **Right click** on the **DetailsTab** and **add** new **Tabpages** with
    these names:

    1.  **General**

    2.  **Notes**

    3.  **Premium**

29. For the **General** tabpage apply the pattern **Fields** and **Field
    Groups.**

30. In the **Properties** pane of the **General TabPage** control under
    **DetailsTab** enter the following **properties:**

| **Property** | **Value** |
|--------------|-----------|
| **Caption**  | Policy    |

31. Drag the **Policy** Field group from **Data source \> MBTAssetInsurance \>
    Field groups** and **drop** under the **General** tabpage.

32. In the **Properties** pane of the **Policy** Group control under
    **DetailsTab \> General tabpage** enter the following **properties:**

| **Property**   | **Value** |
|----------------|-----------|
| **Frame Type** | None      |

33. For the **Notes** Tab Page apply the pattern **Fields** and **Field
    Groups.**

34. Drag the **Description** Field group from **Data source \> MBTAssetInsurance
    \> Field groups** and drop under the **Notes** Tab Page.

35. In the **Properties** pane of the **Notes tabPage** control under
    **DetailsTab** enter the following **properties:**

| **Property** | **Value**   |
|--------------|-------------|
| **Caption**  | Description |

36. In the **Properties** pane of the **Description** Group control under
    **DetailsTab \> Notes tabpage** enter the following **properties:**

| **Property**   | **Value** |
|----------------|-----------|
| **Frame Type** | None      |

37. For the **Premium tabpage** apply the pattern **Toolbar** and **List.**

38. Right click on the **Premium** Tab Page and add a new **Action pane**, named
    **PremiumActionPane**.

39. Add a new **Button Group** to the action pane, named
    **AddDeleteButtonGroup** under **PremiumActionPane** with the following
    **properties**:

| **Property**       | **Value**            |
|--------------------|----------------------|
| **Name**           | AddDeleteButtonGroup |
| **Data Source**    | MBTInsurancePremium  |
| **Arrange Method** | Vertical             |

40. Add a **Command Button** for adding new records under
    **AddDeleteButtonGroup** with the following **properties:**

| **Property**     | **Value** |
|------------------|-----------|
| **Name**         | AddButton |
| **Command**      | New       |
| **Text**         | Add       |
| **Normal Image** | New       |

41. **Add** a **Command Button** for deleting records under
    **AddDeleteButtonGroup** with the following **properties:**

| **Property**     | **Value**    |
|------------------|--------------|
| **Name**         | RemoveButton |
| **Command**      | DeleteRecord |
| **Text**         | Remove       |
| **Normal Image** | Delete       |
| **Save Record**  | No           |

42. **Right click** on the **Premium** Tab Page and **add** a new **Grid** with
    the following **properties**:

| **Property**    | **Value**           |
|-----------------|---------------------|
| **Name**        | PremiumGrid         |
| **Data Source** | MBTInsurancePremium |

43. In the **Properties** pane of the **Premium tabPage** control under
    **DetailsTab** enter the following **properties:**

| **Property** | **Value** |
|--------------|-----------|
| **Caption**  | Premium   |

44. Drag the **InsurancePremium** Field group from **Data source \>
    MBTInsurancePremium \> Field groups** and drop under **PremiumGrid**
    control.

45. In the **Properties** pane of the **Design \| Pattern** node enter the
    following **properties:**

| **Property**    | **Value**         |
|-----------------|-------------------|
| **Caption**     | Asset Insurance   |
| **Data Source** | MBTAssetInsurance |

46. In the **Properties** pane of the **AssetInsuranceActionPane** control enter
    the following property:

| **Property**    | **Value** |
|-----------------|-----------|
| **Height Mode** | Auto      |

Task \#2: Add a new Display Menu Item MBTAssetInsuranceDisplay
--------------------------------------------------------------

1.  In your project MB500TrainingProjectUI in the Solution Explorer, add a New
    Item in Data Interface of type Display Menu Item, and Name it
    MBTAssetInsuranceDisplay

2.  In the **Properties** pane of **MBTAssetInsuranceDisplay** enter the
    following **properties:**

| **Property** | **Value**                |
|--------------|--------------------------|
| **Object**   | MBTAssetInsuranceDetails |
| **Label**    | Insurance Details        |

Task \#3: Add a new Menu in the Asset Table form
------------------------------------------------

1.  Find the **AssetTable** form in Application Explorer under **AOT \> User
    Interface \> Forms**.

2.  Right click on **AssetTable** form and select **Create extension**

3.  A new folder Form Extensions will be created under the
    MB500TrainingProjectUI project in Solution Explorer with a new extension
    object AssetTable.MB500Training

4.  Open **AssetTable.MB500Training** in the designer

5.  Open **ActionPane \> FixedAsset** and **create** a **New Button Group
    MBTInsuranceButtonGroup**.

6.  In the **Properties** pane of **MBTInsuranceButtonGroup** enter the
    following property:

| **Property** | **Value**       |
|--------------|-----------------|
| **Caption**  | Asset insurance |

7.  **Drag** the **Display Menu Item MBTAssetInsuranceDisplay** from your
    project and drop it under **MBTInsuranceButtonGroup**

8.  Go to the newly created **MBTAssetInsuranceDisplay Menu Item** Button under
    Button Group **MBTInsuranceButtonGroup** and enter the following
    property:

| **Property**    | **Value**  |
|-----------------|------------|
| **Data Source** | AssetTable |

Task \#4: Change Asset Table control property
---------------------------------------------

1.  **Open AssetTable.MB500Training** in the designer from the project
    MB500TrainingProjectUI under Solution Explorer.

2.  Search for **Design \> Tab \> TabPageDetails \> TabHeader \> InsuranceTab.**

3.  For the following two **groups**, **change** the **Allow Edit** property to
    **No**

    1.  **Insurance**

    2.  **Policy**

4.  Save and build your project MB500TrainingProjectUI.

*Output*

1.  Open Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps from the browser

2.  Change the Legal entity to “USMF”

3.  Open Fixed assets \> Fixed assets \> Fixed assets

4.  Click on the **Insurance Details** menu button from action pane Fixed asset
    \> Asset Insurance

5.  Select the **New** button in the action pane and create a new record
    (Currently, the form has no validation. Hence, you can enter data as per
    your wish)

6.  Click on the Premium tab and insert the premium records by clicking the
    **Add** button (Currently, the grid has no validation. Hence, you can enter
    data as per your wish)

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-    The lab resources can be found by opening the **File explorer located** on the **Taskbar**. then selecting the **Documents** folder and finally selecting the **Course Assets** Folder

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.

