---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Requirements discussion'
    module: 'Module 02: Solution design'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |


Scenario
========

In this exercise, you will be given some requirements. You need to provide a
solution design using Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations. This is a discussion
and not hands-on.

List of requirements
====================

Functional requirements
-----------------------

1.  There is a requirement to capture Insurance information for the fixed
    assets.

2.  One single fixed asset can have multiple insurances as different components
    of the fixed asset can be insured by different insurance companies.

3.  Insurance companies will be considered as vendor in Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations

4.  All financial postings for the insurance vendors will be booked in the same
    ledger account.

5.  There should be multiple periods for paying the premium; like – monthly,
    quarterly, half-yearly and yearly.

6.  Based on the defined premium amount, premium records will be generated
    indicating due dates for payment.

7.  Other information to be captured related to the insurances are Policy
    Number, Policy date, Insured value, Policy expiry date (one year from the
    policy date), insurance agent and policy description.

8.  An auto-generated transaction number should be allocated for each insurance
    for the internal tracking of the company.

Non-functional requirements
---------------------------

1.  The company has a branch in a remote location, who does not have access to
    the asset insurance feature. They will send a regular CSV file with
    Insurance data, which should be imported in Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations application.

2.  The accountant of the company should execute the process to generate the
    premium once the insurance data is entered or imported. At times, the
    browser rendering the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations application hangs,
    if the volume of insurance data to be processed is significantly high. This
    may hamper the work of the accountant.

Integration requirements
------------------------

1.  If a vendor is identified to provide insurance for a fixed asset, a mail
    should automatically go to the vendor once record is inserted into the
    system.

Reporting requirements
----------------------

1.  Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations has a Workspace for Fixed Asset
    Management. A tile should be added in that workspace which will show a BI
    report displaying total premium paid by the company based on several
    criteria like – dates, insurance vendor, fixed asset location etc.
