---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Develop a BI report'
    module: 'Module 07: Reporting'
---

**MB-500: Microsoft Dynamics 365: Finance and Operations Apps Developer**


Change Record
=============

| Version | Date        | Change                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.0     | 30 Apr 2021 | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Scenario
========

In this lab, a BI report is developed based on the premium amount paid for
different fixed assets.

Lab solution
============

Prerequisite
------------

-   To execute this exercise you need to have a Dynamics 365 Finance and
    Operations apps development environment with access to Visual Studio

-   Import the following lab exercise as a prerequisite of this lab (for import
    instructions, please see appendix)

-   MB500TrainingProject.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataModel.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectUI.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectCode.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectExtension.axpp

-   MB500TrainingProjectDataManagement.axpp

Task \#1: Asset insurance advanced BI report
--------------------------------------------

1.  Right click on the Training solution under Solution Explorer.

2.  Select **Add** \> **New project** and create a new project
    **MB500TrainingProjectReporting**

3.  Right click the project and select **Properties** to set the **Model** to
    **MB-500 Training,** and the **Company** to **USMF.** Set the new project’s **Model** property to **MB500Training**.
 Select **Apply** and
    **OK**

    *MBTAssetInsurance is the table that captures information of the insurances
    for each fixed asset. But this table doesn’t contain any field capturing
    yearly premium amount. Hence we will create a view with a computed field
    showing yearly premium amount. This field will be used in the BI reports.*

4.  Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting** and go to Add
    \> New Item

5.  Select View under Data Model to create a new View **MBTAssetInsuranceView**

6.  In the view **MBTAssetInsuranceView**, under the View Metadata node add a
    new Data source **MBTAssetInsurance** with table **MBTAssetInsurance**

7.  Right click on the **MBTAssetInsurance** data source and verify the Dynamic
    Fields property is Yes

8.  Drag all fields under View Metadata \> Data sources \> MBTAssetInsurance \>
    Fields node and drop them to the Fields node under the root of the view,
    except these fields (if you don’t see them, right click on the solution and
    Build)

    1.  DataAreaId

    2.  Partition

    3.  RecId

    4.  RecVersion

9.  Right click on the Fields node under root of the view and add a new Real
    Computed Column named **TotalPremium**

10. Go to the Methods node under the root of the view and add a **New Method
    totalPremium**

11. Add the following code in the **totalPremium** method (replacing the private
    void method). *Note: This code is multiplying the premium amount based on
    the period selected to calculate the total premium.*

		private static str totalPremium()
		{
			const str cntDataSourceName = "MBTAssetInsurance";
			const str cntFieldPremiumAmount = "PremiumAmount";
			const str cntFieldPeriod = "Period";
			str totalPremium;
			str premiumAmount;
			str period;
			DictView dictViewAssetInsurance;
			dictViewAssetInsurance = new DictView(tableNum(MBTAssetInsuranceView));
			premiumAmount = dictViewAssetInsurance.computedColumnString (cntDataSourceName, cntFieldPremiumAmount, FieldNameGenerationMode::FieldList, true);
			period = dictViewAssetInsurance.computedColumnString (cntDataSourceName, cntFieldPeriod, FieldNameGenerationMode::FieldList, true);
			totalPremium = premiumAmount + "\* iif(" + period + " = 0, 0, iif(" + period + " = 1, 12, iif(" + period + " = 2, 4, iif(" + period + "= 3, 2, 1))))";
			return totalPremium;
		}
12. Save. Select the **TotalPremium** field under the Fields node of the view
    and change the **View Method** property to **totalPremium**

13. Save and build the project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting.** If it doesn’t
    build, then right click the entire solution and **build** it. Right click
    the DataModel project and **synchronize** it, and then the Reporting project
    and **synchronize** it

14. Find the view **MBTAssetInsuranceView** under the Solution Explorer \>
    **MB500TrainingProjectReporting** project

15. Right click on the view **MBTAssetInsuranceView** and select **Open table
    browser**

16. The table browser of the view **MBTAssetInsuranceView** will open with
    values populated in the **TotalPremium** field. *Create an aggregate
    dimension for AssetTable, which will enable drill down of Insurance premium
    data based on Asset group, location etc.*

17. Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting** and select
    **Add** \> **New Item**

18. Select Aggregate Dimensions under Analytics to create a new aggregate
    dimension **MBTAssetDimension**

19. Open the property pane of the root node of **MBTAssetDimension**

20. Change the Table property of the aggregate dimension **MBTAssetDimension**
    to **AssetTable**

21. Expand the Attributes node, which should have the following fields already
    added by default. In case these are not added, right click on the Attributes
    node and select **New Dimension Attribute** to add them. *Create an
    aggregate measurement for the view created from the Asset Insurance table.
    Two measures will be created from this view; like – Total premium amount and
    total count of insurance policies.*

    1.  MBTAssetDimension (Dimension field Reference: DataAreaId, AssetId)

    2.  AssetGroup

    3.  Name

    4.  NameAlias

    5.  Location

    6.  MajorType

22. Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting** and select
    **Add** \> **New Item**

23. Select Aggregate Measurements under Analytics to create a new aggregate
    measurement **MBTAssetInsuranceMeasurement**

24. Open the property pane of the root node of **MBTAssetInsuranceMeasurement**

25. Change the Label property of the aggregate measurement
    **MBTAssetInsuranceMeasurement** to **Asset insurance**.

26. Select the default MeasureGroup and in the property pane change the Table
    property to **MBTAssetInsuranceView**

27. The Name property of the MeasureGroup should also change to
    **MBTAssetInsuranceView**

28. **Save all**.

29. Go to the Dimensions node of the MeasureGroup **MBTAssetInsuranceView**,
    which should have two default values, as follows:

    1.  **Company**: Expand the company node till the end of nodes and ensure
        you find the following: BICompanyView.id ==
        MBTAssetInsuranceView.DataAreaId

    2.  **Date\_**: Expand the Date\_ node till end of nodes and update as
        following: BIDateDimensionValue.Date ==
        MBTAssetInsuranceView.InsurancePolicyDate

30. Drag the aggregate dimension **MBTAssetDimension** from the Solution
    Explorer and drop it on the Dimensions node of the measureGroup
    **MBTAssetInsuranceView**

31. Expand the MBTAssetDimension under the Dimensions node of the measureGroup
    **MBTAssetInsuranceView** till end of nodes and ensure as following:

    *AssetTable.AssetId == MBTAssetInsuranceView.AssetId*

32. Go to the Measures node of measureGroup **MBTAssetInsuranceView** and add
    **New Measure**s with property values as in the table below. *Create a key
    performance indicator for the measurement created above, which can be show
    the total premium amount based on given criteria*

| **\#** | **Name**     | **Field**        | **Default Aggregate** | **Label**     |
|--------|--------------|------------------|-----------------------|---------------|
| I      | TotalPremium | TotalPremium     | Sum                   | Total premium |
| II     | PolicyCount  | AssetInsuranceId | Count                 | Policy count  |

33. Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting** and select
    **Add** \> **New Item**

34. Select Key Performance Indicator under Analytics to create a new key
    performance indicator (KPI) **MBTAssetInsuranceKPI**

35. Open the property pane of the *root* node of **MBTAssetInsuranceKPI** and
    change them as such:

    1.  Label: Asset insurance

    2.  Measurement: **MBTAssetInsuranceMeasurement**

    3.  Refresh Frequency: AsFastAsPermissible

36. Select the property pane of the **Goal** node of the KPI
    **MBTAssetInsuranceKPI** and change the Value property to 1000

37. Select the property pane of the **Value** node of the KPI
    **MBTAssetInsuranceKPI** and change the Measure Group property to
    **MBTAssetInsuranceView** and the Measure property to **TotalPremium.**
    *Create a tile, which can display the KPI on a Workspace*

38. Right-click on the Project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting** and select
    **Add** \> **New Item**

39. Select Tile under User Interface to create a new Tile
    **MBTAssetInsuranceTile**

40. Open the properties pane of **MBTAssetInsuranceTile**

41. Change the Type property of the Tile **MBTAssetInsuranceTile** to KPI.

42. The KPI property of the Tile **MBTAssetInsuranceTile** will be enabled and
    change it to **MBTAssetInsuranceKPI.** *Create an extension of the workspace
    AssetWorkspace. In the Tile section of the workspace add the new tile, which
    is created in the previous section*

43. In the (View \> ) Application Explorer, search for the form
    **AssetWorkspace**.

44. Right click on **AssetWorkspace** and select **Create Extension**

45. A new folder **Form Extensions** will be created in the project
    MB500TrainingProjectReporting under Solution Explorer with a new object
    AssetWorkspace.MB500Training within it.

46. In AssetWorkspace.MB500Training, create a **New Tile Button** under Design
    \> ControlTab \> MyWork \> PanoramaTab \> SummarySection

47. Set the properties of the Tile Button as follows

    1.  Name: MBTAssetInsurance

    2.  Tile: MBTAssetInsuranceTile

    3.  Tile Display: Auto

48. Save and build the project **MB500TrainingProjectReporting**

Output 

Please note that the module 10 exercise is a prerequisite to testing this
exercise

1.  Right click the DataManagement project and Synchronize to the database

2.  Open the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations portal in your browser

3.  Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Setup \> Vendors \> Vendor Groups**

4.  Add a new record (if not already there from a previous exercise):

    1.  Vendor Group: **100**

    2.  Description: **Insurance vendors**

5.  Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Setup \> Procurement and sourcing
    parameters**

6.  In the General tab, you will find a field Insurance Vendor Group; select 100
    in that field.

7.  Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Vendors \> All vendors**

8.  Add four new vendors with **Group** 100 (if not already there).

    1.  Vendor Code: INS0001, Name: Insurance vendor 001

    2.  Vendor Code: INS0002, Name: Insurance vendor 002

    3.  Vendor Code: INS0003, Name: Insurance vendor 003

    4.  Vendor Code: INS0004, Name: Insurance vendor 004

9.  Navigate to the menu **Organization Administration** and execute its
    **Periodic \> Load Number Sequence**

10. At the end of the execution, you will get a message “Number sequence loaded”

11. Navigate to the module **Fixed Assets** and open its **Setup** \> **Fixed
    assets parameters**

12. Go to the Number sequences tab and you will find a new reference Asset
    Insurance ID. In the Number Sequence code field select **Fixe_17**

13. **Save** the record

14. Open the **Data Management** workspace and select the **Framework
    parameters** tile

15. In the **Entity settings** tab, select the **Refresh entity list** button

16. In the **Data Management** workspace, open **Data Entities**

17. When the entity list is refreshed, search for the **Asset Insurance** entity
    and select **Modify target mapping** in the action menu

18. Ensure the mapping between Staging and Target is correct

19. In the **Data Management** workspace, open **Import**

20. Enter the following data:

    1.  Group name: Asset insurance import

    2.  Data project operation type: Import

    3.  Click on **+Add file**

    4.  Entity name: Asset Insurance

    5.  Source data format: CSV

    6.  Default refresh type: Full push only

    7.  Click on button **Upload and add** and select *assetInsurance.csv* (you
        may download this from by opening the **File explorer** located on the **Taskbar**. then selecting the **Documents** folder and finally selecting the **Course Assets** folder.)

    8.  Select the **Close** button

21. In the **Selected entities** line, select **View map**

22. Navigate to the **Mapping details** tab and select the **Auto-generated**
    checkbox in the ASSETINSURANCEID line.

23. Select **Save** and close this form

24. Select the **Import** button in the action pane

25. Monitor the status of the import process

26. Open the *workspace* **Fixed asset management**

27. You will find a new Tile added in the Tiles section of the Workspace with
    label Asset Insurance

28. Open the Tile and explore the Asset Insurance BI report

Appendix 

**Project Import instructions:**  

-   The lab resources can be found by opening the **File explorer** located on the **Taskbar**. then selecting the **Documents** folder and finally selecting the **Course Assets** folder.

-   To import a project, navigate to Visual Studio and select **Dynamics 365**
    \> **Import Project** 

-   In the File name field, select the file name with path of the .axpp file
    that you want to import 

-   For the first import, of MB500TrainingProject, select **New solution**. For
    subsequent ones, select the **Current solution** option.

-   Select the **OK** button. You may safely override if prompted.
